# **Blockchain component**

- Ledger (associate with accountant) - a collection of transaction. In blockchain, the ledger is distributed (or decentralize) -> no one/ everyone own the ledger.
- A transaction is compose of sender, receiver and the assets
- Some of blockchain implementation have smart contract. Smart contract is rule to make transaction of block chain.
- There are public blockchain and private blockchain.
- In blockchain network, there are nodes. Each nodes have the copy of ledger
- Private blockchain have the authorization/authentication service (aka membership service provider)
- Have identity of user, achieved by PKI provide public key -> identity of the user on the network. And the private key store in wallet (**wallet is a collection of the user credentials**)
- People interact with blockchain through **event**

## **Basic terms of blockchain**
### Ethereum
- Ethereum, like Bitcoin, is a decentralized open-source blockchain. Unlike the Bitcoin Network, the Ethereum Protocol has the ability to run smart contracts. The cryptocurrency running on the Ethereum network is called Ether.
### Smart Contracts
- A smart contract is computer code that can be run on a blockchain that executes the conditions of an agreement.
### Public Blockchains
- Public blockchain has no barrier to entry. Anyone with a cell phone and a digital wallet can transact on the blockchain.
### Private Blockchains
- Private blockchains or permissioned blockchains have a Membership Services piece that grants access to users before they can interact with the blockchain.
### Digital Wallet
- A digital wallet is a computer application that represents a traditional wallet. It gives the user the ability to store and transact cryptocurrencies through the Internet.
### Public Key Infrastructure (PKI)
- Public Key Infrastructure is the identity management system for instilling trust into the electronic transfers of information or value. It is the technology used to authenticate users and information by issuing a set of key pairs (public and private).

### **In decentralized ledger, it's hard to cheat (51% of copy need to be updated). Event though a node come down, there still other nodes hold the transaction history**.

## **Blockchain = concept of ledger+distributed system**

<br>

# **Cryptography and trust**

## **Basic term of cryptography**
### Cryptography
- Cryptography is a technique used to secure the communication between two parties from a third. The term cryptography is derived from two ancient greek terms, “kryptos” which means “hidden” and “graphein” which means “to write”.
### Secret
- The data which we are trying to protect.
### Key
- A piece of data used for encrypting and decrypting the secret.
### Function
- The process or function used to encrypt the secret.
### Cipher
- The encrypted secret data, the digital secret, the output of the mathematical function or a cryptographic algorithm.
### Encryption
- This is the process from plain text (ordinary text) to cipher text (random sequence of bits).
### Decryption
- Encryption is the reverse process of converting ciphertext into plain text.
<br> 

**One of the technologies that plays a pivotal role in blockchain and making blockchain secure and immutable is cryptography.**

## **Byzantine Fault Tolerance -> the idea make blockchain become more secure**

<br>

# **Types of Cryptography in Blockchain**

### Public Key Cryptography
- This encryption method uses a pair of keys: an encryption key, and a decryption key, named public key and private key, respectively. The key pair generated by this algorithm consists of a private key and a unique public key that is generated using the same algorithm.
### Zero-Knowledge Proofs
- A new approach to protecting digital secrets that prove knowledge of a secret without revealing it.
### Hash Functions
- This type of encryption doesn’t make use of keys. It uses a cipher to generate a hash value of a fixed length. The function converts plain text (no matter the size) into a hash of fixed size. It is nearly impossible for the contents of plain text to be recovered from the cipher text. Think of it like trying to recreate a human from a fingerprint, a fingerprint uniquely represents a human no matter the size of the human and you can’t reverse engineer a fingerprint to recreate the human.
### Merkle Trees
- A data storage technique that compresses or packs data for storing blockchains with a tamper-free component built in. Merkle trees are built upon hashing principles in that each hash becomes a part of the next hash to build a tamper resistant data storage model.


## **Zero-Knowledge Proofs** 
- https://appinventiv.com/blog/zero-knowledge-proof-blockchain/

## A comparision of Ethereum vs Hyperledger Fabric

The use of public keys for identity management is a logical choice since knowledge of a public key is necessary for verification of digital signatures. Both Ethereum and Hyperledger Fabric use digital signatures on transactions and blocks to verify the identity of the creator and that the signed data has not been modified since signing. Public key cryptography is used in the blockchain as a method for managing users’ identities without revealing real world identities.

In Ethereum, users are identified by an address that is directly related to the user's public key. This provides identity verification while preserving anonymity.

In Hyperledger Fabric, users are identified via X.509 certificates. These certificates provide several pieces of information about the user, but one of these is also the user's public key.

Hash functions are at the core of all blockchain technology. One of the primary uses for hash functions is chaining blocks together. In both Ethereum and Hyperledger Fabric, blocks include the hash of the previous block to tie the blockchain into a cohesive whole.

Zero-knowledge proofs are to increase the privacy of users. Currently, Ethereum is working on a layer 2 solution, where a second layer blockchain would store large amounts of data and only prove the batch of information is valid to layer 1 (mainnet). Hyperledger Fabric has a pluggable cryptographic library that supports ZKP techniques for enhanced privacy measures.

Merkle trees are a data structure that allows authenticated storage with efficient data retrieval. Both Ethereum and Hyperledger Fabric are smart contract platforms that use a particular type of Merkle tree called the Patricia tree to store the current state of their virtual machine.


# **Blockchain transparency and immutability**

The blockchain is designed to be a data structure that only allows appending -> The past history of the blockchain is visible and immutable.
- Updates to the blockchain can be performed by including them in new blocks added to the blockchain.
- The blockchain is designed as a data structure where each block in the chain locks in the value of the previous block and so on, back to the first or genesis block. This means that the blockchain is an append-only data structure without support for modification or deletion.

- **The entire history of the blockchain is publicly visible and stored in a distributed and decentralized fashion**. Values in the blockchain can be “updated” by appending a new version of that value in a later block, but the complete history of the value is preserved.
- **Transactions** in the blockchain cannot be modified after creation, and their complete history is publicly visible. This means that the blockchain is a completely transparent data structure with the useful property that the integrity of the blockchain is easily verifiable (by cryptography algorithm) by any user.
- **Immutability in the Blockchain Is Essential.** This is achieved by these techniques:
  - At the bottom level, transactions are digitally signed by their creators. An attacker can’t forge a transaction unless they steal a private key.
  - A block structure is predefined. Attackers can’t modify it to suit their purposes.
  - The chain part of the blockchain is achieved using hash functions. Each block includes the hash of the previous block, creating a clear link between each block in the blockchain.
  - Each block is digitally signed by its creator. The creator is selected through the blockchain’s consensus protocol, making it difficult for an attacker to be a legitimate creator. The creator of a block is either publicly known (Proof of Stake) or difficult to become (Proof of Work), making masquerading as the real creator difficult or impossible.


# **Blockchain function**
## **Onion model on blockchain:**
- Two or more parties coming together and using the blockchain to record an announcement of the exchange of monetary value. (first layer - first type of transaction)
- Two or more parties using blockchain to record an important announcement. (second layer - second type of transaction)
- A single party announcing an important or significant event. (third layer - third type of transaction)
## **Smart contract**:  
- And smart contracts are just computer code. They're codified logic that we can use to respond to any kind of event that gets captured on the blockchain.
These are some of the features that smart contracts provide:

- These are some of the features that smart contracts provide:
  - Accuracy: Replacing human intermediaries with executable code ensures the process will always be performed the same.
  - Cost savings: Replacing intermediaries often provides significant cost reduction.
  - Efficiency: Removing process intermediaries often results in significant process efficiency gains.
  - Backup: A blockchain and smart contract deployed to it can provide a permanent record, allowing for auditing, insight, and traceability, even if the creator is no longer in business.
  - Autonomy: Smart contracts can be developed by anyone, no need for intermediaries such as lawyers, brokers, or auditors.
  
## **Blockchain security**

Difference terms Standard Cyber security vs Blockchain Cyber security

| Standar cyber security                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Blockchain cyber security                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| The traditional computing environment is a company network fully or, at least mostly, under the control of the company's computer security staff.                                                                                                                                         | Blockchains are designed to be decentralized, distributed systems running on untrusted hardware.                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| While many organizations are making the shift to cloud-based environments, they still have a high degree of control over the security and configuration of their rented systems.                                                                                                          | While security in traditional environments is designed to provide security by putting all data in one place and building walls around it, security in blockchain is based on ensuring that data is protected from modification by copying data to as many locations as possible to make modification of all copies infeasible. |
| Traditional networks are highly centralized, and the focus of cybersecurity on these systems is primarily perimeter-focused. All systems and authorized users on the network are trusted or semi-trusted, so the focus is on preventing attackers from entering from outside the network. | Traditional infrastructure focuses on confidentiality and integrity, while blockchain is designed to provide integrity and availability.                                                                                                                                                                                       |